Everything that I've taught
you in this course so
far could be construed as useful as
on a day to day for a developer.
And I'm gonna throw out there that it's
a relatively simple, simple is a hard word to
throw out there, cuz it's still kind
of like networking and hard stuff.
And particularly if this is your first
exposure to it, it should feel hard.
But I'm gonna say that Kubernetes is
the next level up in terms of difficulty,
there's so many moving parts here and it
is built for Google scale kind of stuff,
right?
Whereas everything that we've been
using so far is mostly oriented towards
individual developers, individual
containers and all that kind of stuff.
So, what I'm really trying to say
here is I'm giving permission for
you to feel like this is hard and
kind of unapproachable.
But I wanted to kind of give
you the first step into it, so
you understand this is a container,
this is Docker-composed of small clusters,
and then this is Kubernetes,
and this is large clusters.
Cuz I imagine many of you're probably
using Kubernetes at work, or
your work uses Kubernetes, mine does.
So, let's talk about use cases of
what you would use Kubernetes,
and when you would kinda
wanna start heading that way.
One thing I'll throw out here
really quickly, just in general,
I'm trying to demystify Kubernetes for
all of you so
that it just feels a little bit more
like something you can talk about.
You'll see it all the time
abbreviated as k8s or
k8s as people sometimes say it loud.
That is because some people have a hard
time spelling the Greek word Kubernetes.
It is k, then it is eight letters, and
then s, which is where k8s comes from,
just like accessibility is a11y,
right, it's 11 letters there.
I18n, right, internationalization,
I'm sure there's more.
So, that's why you'll see that
abbreviated as k8s there.
Let's go over a few of the just
the fundamental concepts here,
there is a control plane in Kubernetes.
This is what coordinates this scale up,
this scale down,
this crashed, restart this,
it's the brain of your cluster.
A lot of the cloud providers don't give
away the control plane that they don't
charge you for it.
If I remember correctly, Azure and
Google give it away for free.
And they don't charge you for the compute
that it incurs to run the control plane.
If I remember correctly, elastic
Kubernetes service, which is the AWS-1,
still charges you for it.
You'll sometimes in old, old notes,
it's referred to as the master node.
But they have since
changed the terminology,
we've eliminated master from
the vernacular of the internet there,
so they now call that the control plane.
>> Brian Holt: Nodes, not to be confused
with Node.JS, which I recognize that could
be confusing in particular in a course
like this, are the individual workers.
Whatever that worker ends up being,
whether that's a server,
whether that's a container or
whatever that is.
One node can be one node and technically
can be multiple containers as well.
>> Brian Holt: Frequently you'll
see a one-to-one node to a machine,
especially if you're training LLMs or
something like that,
you'll see that that's
frequently the case.
Yeah, a node is just a deploy target,
that's probably the simplest and
most accurate way to think of a node is.
It's whatever you're deploying to,
which is usually a VM of some variety.
>> Brian Holt: Then you have this concept
of a pod, a pod is a group of nodes.
You kinda wanna think of that
as like a inseparable atom or
molecule like our app
that I just showed you,
you cannot run the API
without the database.
Those two have to be together or
they won't run, right?
So, you'll deploy them as a pod,
it's basically something
that you cannot separate.
I guess in this particular case,
you really could separate them
into separate pods, right?
And then just have them communicate over,
so
maybe a better way of thinking
about it in that case.
I have people seen to do it that way,
but it'd be more like I have an app and
a sidecar that the sidecar cannot
operate without the main app running.
And so, you have to deploy
those two things together or
things just do not work, right?
That would be a pod that you
would deploy together, yeah, and
so scratch what I said about databases,
you actually do wanna deploy those
as separate pods,
because pods will scale together, right?
Whereas like you want
your Mongo service and
your other service to scale independently.
So, service speaking of that is a group
of pods that make up one back-end,
right, or one frontend, right?
If you're thinking about micro services or
micro service maps to
what a service is right?
So, a backend, a frontend,
a data science service,
all those kinds of things
will scale as services.
And then this all ladders up into
a deployment, which is a holistically,
I'm pushing an entire new
set of services out, right?
And then when I'm ready
to deployment again,
I will roll out another whole deployment.
Probably not the best
explanation of this or
maybe I'm trying to keep this
like simple and approachable.
And otherwise, like these
are tools that you can choose to
use to build your service or
your system however you want to, right?
But it's always made up of these things,
nodes into pods, pods into services,
services into deployments.
There's certainly more to these things
than what I've explained to you here, but
that's kind of the basic
gist of what they should be.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
if you are on Windows at the moment,
this is harder to get running on Windows,
so good luck.
I'm gonna show you how to do all this
stuff in on Mac, it works on Linux
obviously, as you might tell, Kubernetes
is strongly geared towards Linux.
We're gonna need one new CLI here,
which is cube control,
I also hear people refer to this as cube
cuddle, which I just think is adorable.
But this is just a client to control
some sort of Kubernetes instance.
>> Brian Holt: So, you can use
kubectl to control your AWS instances.
You can use it to control your Azure ones,
you can use it to control minikube,
which is something that runs
locally on your computer.
We're gonna do it through Kubernetes,
through Docker Desktop,
which has Kubernetes built into it, but
you can see it's just a control client.
In and of itself cube
control doesn't actually have Kubernetes
built into it, it's just is an API to
control some other instance of Kubernetes.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, I mentioned this,
we're gonna do it through Docker Desktop,
but you can also use minikube
if that's what you desire to do.
And you can have both installed
by the way, you can switch,
using what's called context, so you say
kubectl config use-context minikube.
Docker desktop, and you can switch back
and forth, use Azure, use AWS, blah,
blah, blah.
If you're gonna do minikube,
say minikube start, otherwise,
I'm gonna show you how to set
this up with Docker desktop.
So, open docker-desktop,
which I have opened here,
click on the gear here in the top right.
Click on Kubernetes here, I have all this
taken down inside of my notes as well.
And then just make sure you
have enabled Kubernetes.
Once you've done that, you will have
Kubernetes running on your computer,
you'll probably have to say apply and
restart which might take a second.
Okay, and
then you should see up here,
you can see I have Docker-desktop is
running and Kubernetes is running.
Okay, I have kubectl installed,
so you should be able to say cluster info.
>> Brian Holt: If you don't, do I have
notes here on how to install kubectl?
I think I just got it from Homebrew.
>> Brian Holt: Install MacOS.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I just installed it through Homebrew.
So, I do have that in my notes here
as well, so that will be up here,
I'll see how to install.
It takes you to the docs,
MacOS, and I have Apple silicon.
You can do it either through Curl,
I might have done it that way,
right there, that's how I did it,
Brew, install, kubectl.